the word that came to Jeremiah
concerning all the Jews who dwell in the
land of Egypt who dwell at Migdal Tappin
'is enough and in the country of
paffrath thus says the Lord of hosts the
God of Israel you have seen all the
calamity that I have brought on
Jerusalem and on all the cities of Judah
and behold this day they are a
desolation and no one dwells in them
because of their wickedness which they
have committed to provoke me to anger in
that they went to burn incense and to
serve other gods whom they did not know
they know you nor your father's however
I have sent to you all my servants the
prophets rising early and sending them
saying oh do not do this abominable
thing that I hate but they did not
listen or incline their ear to turn from
their wickedness to burn no incense to
other gods so my fury and my anger were
poured out and kindled in the cities of
Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem
and they are wasted and desolate as it
is this day now therefore thus says the
Lord the God of hosts the God of Israel
why do you commit this great evil
against yourselves to cut off from you
man and woman child and the infant out
of Judah leaving none to remain in that
you provoked me to wrath with the works
of your hands burning incense to other
gods in the land of Egypt where you have
gone to dwell
that you may cut yourselves off and be a
curse and a reproach among all the
nations of the earth have you forgotten
the wickedness of your fathers the
wickedness of the kings of Judah the
wickedness of their wives your own
wickedness and the wickedness of your
wives which they committed in the land
of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem
they have not been humbled to this day
nor have they feared they have not
walked in my law or in my statutes that
I set before you and your fathers
therefore thus says the Lord of hosts
the God of Israel behold I will set my
face against you for catastrophe and for
cutting off all Judah and I will take
the remnant of Judah who have set their
faces to go into the land of Egypt to
dwell there and they shall all be
consumed and fall in the land of Egypt
they shall be consumed by the sword and
by famine they shall die from the least
to the greatest by the sword and by
famine and they shall be an oath and
astonishment a curse and a reproach for
I will punish those who dwell in the
land of Egypt as I have punished
Jerusalem by the sword by famine and by
pestilence so that none of the remnant
of Judah who have gone into the land of
Egypt to dwell there shall escape or
survive unless they returned in the land
of Judah to which they desire to return
and dwell when none shall return except
those who escape then all the men who
knew that their wives had burned incense
to other gods with all the women who
stood by a great multitude and all the
people who dwelt in the land of Egypt in
paths frass answered Jeremiah
as for the word that you have spoken to
us in the name of the Lord we will not
listen to you but we will certainly do
whatever has gone out of our own mouth
to burn incense to the queen of heaven
and pour out drink offerings to her as
we have done we and our fathers are
kings and our Prince's in the cities of
Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem
for then we had plenty of food were well
off and saw no trouble but since we
stopped burning incense to the Queen of
Heaven and pouring out drink offerings
to her we have lacked everything and
have been consumed by the sword and by
famine the women also said and when we
burned incense to the Queen of Heaven
and poured out drink offerings to her
did we make cakes for her to worship her
and pour out drink offerings to her
without our husbands permission then
jeremiah spoke to all the people the men
the women and all the people who had
given him that answer the incense that
you burned in the cities of Judah and in
the streets of Jerusalem you and your
father's your kings and your princes and
the people of the land did not the Lord
remember them and did it not come into
his mind so the Lord could no longer
bear it because of the evil of your
doings and the cause of the abominations
which you committed therefore your land
is a desolation an astonishment a curse
without an inhabitant as it is this day
because you have burned incense and
because you have sinned against the Lord
and have not obeyed the voice of the
Lord or walk in his law in his statutes
or in his testimonies therefore this
calamity has happened to you as at this
day
moreover jeremiah said to all the people
and to all the women here the word of
the lord all judah who are in the land
of egypt thus says the lord of hosts the
God of Israel saying you and your wives
have spoken with your mouths and
fulfilled with your hand saying we will
surely keep our vows that we have made
to burn incense to the queen of heaven
and pour out drink offerings to her you
will surely keep your vows and perform
your vows therefore hear the word of the
Lord all Judah who dwell in the land of
Egypt behold I have sworn by my great
name says the Lord that my name shall no
more be named in the mouth of any man of
Judah in all the land of Egypt saying
the Lord God lives behold I will watch
over them for adversity and not for good
and all the men of Judah who are in the
land of Egypt shall be consumed by the
sword and by famine until there is an
end to them yet a small number who
escaped the sword shall return from the
land of Egypt to the land of Judah and
all the remnant of Judah who have gone
to the land of Egypt to dwell there
shall know whose words will stand mine
or theirs
and this shall be assigned to you says
the Lord but I will punish you in this
place that you may know that my words
will surely stand against you for
adversity thus says the Lord behold I
will give Pharaoh Khafra king of Egypt
into the hand of his enemies and into
the hand of those who seek his life as I
gave said Akaya
king of Judah into the hand of
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon his enemy
who sought his life
[Music]